#Super-Resolution-using-Single-Image-GAN#

GANs are a type of generative networks which produce realistic images from a latent vector (“ or distribution”). Generally, a GAN comprises two networks: generator (G) whose purpose is to map latent code to images and discriminator (D) whose task is to judge if an image belongs to original dataset (real image) or if it was generated by generator network means it is a fake image. Performing against the discriminator, the generator network tries its level best to befool it, generating new images from the latent vector so the discriminator network may believe that these are real images.


Generally GANs learn from large datasets in order to generate fake images, known as conditional GANs. THere is another class of GANs known as unconditional GANs because they do not rely on large amount of images to learn the representations and generate fake images. This catagory of GANs learn from internal statistical distribution of a single image and based on that, they produce multiple fake images. IN this repo, i have worked on an un-conditional GAN model to perform task of produce high resolution images from low resolution images. To perfrom this task, i used BSD-100 dataset. 

The results achieved with this work, were benchmarked against some top of the line super resolution GAN models like SRGAN ESRGAN and it was evaluated that the results were much higher with my SIngle image GAN model as compared to large dataset dependant SRGAN and ESRGAN models.

##DATA SET##
I performed this task of super resolution utilizing following data sets:-

(1) BSD (Berkeley Segmentation Dataset) is a dataset Introduced by David R. Martin et al. in A Database of Human Segmented Natural Images and its Application to Evaluating Segmentation Algorithms and Measuring Ecological Statistics. It is used frequently for image denoising and super-resolution. The dataset is composed of a large variety of images ranging from natural images to object-specific such as plants, people, food etc. BSD100 is the testing set of the Berkeley segmentation dataset BSD300. 
@inproceedings{martin2001database,
  title={A database of human segmented natural images and its application to evaluating segmentation algorithms and measuring ecological statistics},
  author={Martin, David and Fowlkes, Charless and Tal, Doron and Malik, Jitendra},
  booktitle={Proceedings Eighth IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision. ICCV 2001},
  volume={2},
  pages={416--423},
  year={2001},
  organization={IEEE}
}


(2) COWC (Cars Overhead With Context) : This dataset was introduced by Mundhenk et al. in A Large Contextual Dataset for Classification, Detection and Counting of Cars with Deep Learning. The Cars Overhead With Context (COWC) data set is a large set of annotated cars from overhead. It is useful for training a device such as a deep neural network to learn to detect and/or count cars. 
@inproceedings{mundhenk2016large,
  title={A large contextual dataset for classification, detection and counting of cars with deep learning},
  author={Mundhenk, T Nathan and Konjevod, Goran and Sakla, Wesam A and Boakye, Kofi},
  booktitle={Computer Vision--ECCV 2016: 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 11-14, 2016, Proceedings, Part III 14},
  pages={785--800},
  year={2016},
  organization={Springer}
}


#CODE

Install dependencies

python -m pip install -r requirements.txt

This code was tested with python 3.10.9, torch 1.12.1


#SUPER RESOLUTION

To super resolve an image using this GAN model with help of a single low resolution mage as an input, place the low resolution image inside input / images folder and  please run:

python SR.py --input_name <LR_image_file_name>

This will automatically train the model corresponding to 4x upsampling factor (if not exist already). THe model will appear in the folder with the name "TrainedModels" . For different SR factors, please specify it using the parameter --sr_factor when calling the function. Output high resolution image will automatically save into Output folder.
Super resolution results on the BSD100 dataset can be download from the 'Downloads' folder.

